While I was choosing the theme for my project, I came across multiple themes that were minimalist and elegant, but where a “freemium” --provided the basic layout but lacked the customization options unless upgraded. After trying a variety of themes, I decided to stick with Sydney, since I found other tools to adapt and align my vision with the client’s request.


The Sydney theme was very customizable, compatible with most plugins and responsive. The customization aspect that I was looking for was extremely important --since I wanted to take the client’s request as the very first step in creating a minimalist and elegant site. I was to be able to add a custom logo, change the font type as well as its color, and allowed me to use plugins to create different custom layouts for posts that I built using the SiteOrigin Editor. 


This theme also allowed me to install the SiteOrigin CSS editor, in which I was able to edit the CSS in the widgets I added --directly from the widget itself. I was able to specify the layout and the responsiveness on how the content in the page behaved based on the type of device in which it was displayed. This allowed to make most of the modifications directly from there, or in a child theme, rather than having to do it all in the end directly through the CSS editor. It also allowed me to specify id and class attributes to the HTML code of the widgets, images, menus, etc.. This allowed me to target specific content in the child-theme and in the widget plugin to change the color theme, fonts, layout, and formats I chose for most of the content in the project.


The Sydney theme was also compatible with the Imsanity and WP Category Permalink plugins. This proved to be extremely useful, as the links would be automatically generated for the corresponding page and make it easier for the client. These plugins would allow the client to just choose a category in which the chalet will be displayed without having to worry about any technicalities, as well as providing a tool that would automatically format the pictures to be consistent with the rest of the theme without having to worry about specifications on the sizes or ratios of the pictures when uploaded.


As a last step the sydney theme also allowed me to customize its source stylesheet when needed. Because of the plug-in I used, I had done most of the customization upfront, and only ended up needing to tweak a few single and class items to provide the finishing touch ups I wanted to accomplish. I am very satisfied with the decision I made to go with the Sydney theme since it provided: versatility to adapt the site to my vision, customization for the page layout and its contents, as well as, responsiveness I needed to create my site to the request of my client’s needs.